In this lecture you will learn how you can easily queried the one to many relationship.
But before we get started make sure that you have some records inside the database.
Mainly I mean having at least one blog posts and some comments assigned to it.
If you closely follow this course in the last lecture we have added some comments using Tinker.
So make sure you did that of course.
Better ways of providing some fake data to play around with.
I'm just adding it manually each time it's called database seeding but we'll get to that in the couple
of next lecture so then you will see how you can easily get a set of some data you can play around with.
So till now let's just work with what we have.
So first let's see how we can fetch our blog post with all its comments.
So you need to start Tinker if you haven't.
Then just make sure you run Peach Pit artisan thinker.
And now let's fudge the blog post.
So remember that I have a blog post with the idea too.
But you might have different depends on what you have previously entered and deleted so we will try
to fetch all the blog posts with the comments so you might remember I showed you this in the previous
lectures that you might use there with method to create a query and it will fetch all the blog posts
with all the comments.
So let's see what we get from that.
So you can see that we have one blog post inside the database and it is fetching everything into a collection.
So that's why we have our collection object as a response and it already has all the comments pre fetched.
So normally if you would fetch blog posts using blog posts all static method you will only get the blog
post without the associated comments.
Now it's also easy to fetch.
Now what we did was called eager loading.
So it is used for cases when you are certain that the model you are working with you need all the relations
for and you want to press fetch them using one query instead.
You might also fetch a blog post.
Normally using the Find method and then when you have that blog post you can use the comments field
so the fields are always with the same name as the method name of the relation you have defined.
But instead you use them as they would be a field and this would be called lazy loading.
So you will only fetch the comments when you need them and they will be loaded by just accessing this
property so let's see we have access the Commons property of the post and it loaded all the related
comments of that blog post.
So now let's clear the screen and if I'll just echo the post again you can see that now it has all the
blog post contents together with all the comments.
Now let's see what comments do we have here we have one with the idea one two three four and five.
So let's clear the screen and try to load a comment so we can do that using that comment find and specifying
the I.D..
And it is what you would expect to be inside the database.
So it has all the fields the timestamps I.D. the content and also the blog post I.D..
Now you can also load the related blog posts if you happen to just have the instance of this comment
model which can perfectly happen.
So let's see if we can log how we can load the related blog post so remember that on the blog post the
relation is called the blog post.
So it's a method.
And if you would call it like a method then you have access to some additional querying so you can do
some more complicated queries.
But for now we'll do the simple one and if we'll access it as a field the larval eloquent will simply
load the related blog post model so you can see it works perfectly.
It has loaded the related blog post.
Now let's see what is inside the comment.
And you can see that we have what we have loaded previously and then what we have lazy loaded by accessing
the blog post property it has the related blog post loaded so this is how you can load the other side
of the relation of the one to many in this case loading the blog post from the comment so this would
be how you would do very simple querying and in the next lecture I will show you in the couple of next
lectures I will show you some more complicated queries that we can easily do using lava eloquent without
rate writing too much code.